# development diary

## ssc & mushrooms
## 5-18-2021

Today was feeling quite 'under the weather' due to the 2nd covid vaccine. I factored out some form elements from [the mushroom website](https://mycomoon.com/). It's oddly easy yet satisfying work -- to take a pattern/chunk of code that you use in several places and make it re-usable by putting it on `npm` as it's own thing. I wonder why that is? Maybe it still feels like a good deal, like your getting more in return than you are investing into it.

Speaking of the mushroom website, I have done a lot of work on that over the last week or so. You can witness it if you so desire at [this branch deploy website](https://tabs--mycomoon.netlify.app/). That's another classic... making websites for local businesses to sell things on the internet. It's kind of fun getting back into gear with this. You could get to be really fast & good at developing these sites if it were relevant to your life. All the tools are in place for individuals, you don't need any special/costly infrastructure.

I looked at [commercejs](https://commercejs.com/) as a CMS/backend. But I think we can just keep using [square](https://squareup.com/us/en) as a CMS & payment processor. Though commercejs looks like it would be a better CMS honestly. It's not worth it to change this late in the process. It would be good for the next project.

---------------------------------------
 
Also have been working on this thing called [ssc](https://github.com/nichoth/ssc-server). This is kind of a cool project to me. It is `ssb`, but using normal, boring things instead of fancy things. So xhr calls instead of muxrpc. Also FOP (fun oriented programming) is important. Which is why I'm using a DB service instead of a cool flume/level DB. We're using something called `faunadb`, which is really quite a sophisticated DB project. From my understanding, it is a distributed DB, so there are multiple copies of it 'in the cloud', but it still gives you guarantees about consistency like a single-machine DB. That's my naive understanding anyway. It makes it kind of weird since I'm keeping all the ssb DB stuff basically -- using a merkle-list for posts & what have you. So it's basically a distributed DB that's built on top of another DB with better consistency guarantees. Anyway… i guess that's a longer story than i have time for right now. The cool thing is that this will all be able to be hosted on netlify, and accessed using a normal web browser. However, it doesn't do gossiping like old style ssb (it's less radical than ssb) because we are depending on the server, not just you local machine. However, the idea is that anyone can make a server and then the servers would gossip amongst each other.

